---
layout: project
title: MAE3240
description: Portfolio assignment for MAE3240 - Heat Transfer
technologies: 
image: 
---

<iframe src="{{ '/Problem+set+2.pdf' | relative_url }}" width="100%" height="600px"></iframe>

One assigned problem I found useful and informative in MAE3240 was Problem 1 on Problem Set 2. In this problem, we analyzed heat loss from an electric water heater and the effect of adding insulation. In this problem, we treated the heater as a cylindrical system operating at steady state and calculated the electrical heating power needed to keep the water at 50 degrees C. The first part involved determining the heat loss to the environment using Newton’s law of cooling. By calculating the exposed surface area of the tank and applying the given convection coefficient and ambient temperature, we were able to estimate the heat loss and the power required to maintain the temperature. This problem helped me better understand how convection affects heat transfer in real systems and how energy balances can be used to determine required power inputs. 

The second part of the problem examined how adding a layer of insulation changes the heat transfer. We modeled conduction through the insulation and convection to the surrounding air as resistances in series and solved for the new heat transfer rate. The results showed that adding insulation significantly reduced the heat loss and therefore the electrical power required to maintain the water temperature. This demonstrated a practical application of thermal resistance networks and showed how engineers use these types of models to make design decisions that improve energy efficiency in systems like water heaters and other thermal equipment. 
